In my senior year at Rice, I participated in a service trip that focused on the
gaps in early education for socioeconomically disadvantaged communities in the
Houston area. We met once a week for several months before the trip itself,
which took place over the Spring Break, and discussed the multi-faceted
challenges that children in these communities face in their pursuit of
education. During the trip, we volunteered at two community centers; one which
runs a non-profit preschool and another which held an after school program for
elementary school children to provide them a safe environment.

I was talking to a group of children about the importance of school and
education. When I asked for their favorite subject, a third grader named Juan
enthusiastically said, "Math because of the patterns". I sensed passion in his
answer, so the next day I derived for him the formula for the sum of an
arithmetic series. Then I continued to give a simplified proof that the sum of
all positive integers is -1/12, a peculiar result. He was enthralled by the math
and wanted more. But he did not have access to a computer or the internet and
his parents worked all day so he could not use the resources at the library. In
that moment, I was struck by the tragedy of his situation-- all of his passion
and interest may be wasted due to a lack of resources that I had taken for
granted.

This experience gave me context in the discussion about the socioeconomically
disadvantaged. Economic and educational policies became more personal to me, as
well as immigration policy because there were several students who were illegal
immigrants. It was heartbreaking to hear the community center director talk
about the impact of immigration policies on the children's lives; how they were
painfully aware of the consequences of being an illegal alien. The experience
humbled me and revealed how much of my privilege I had taken for granted. 

my psychology and sociology courses and the weekly meetings leading up to this
trip all suggested that he was fighting an almost losing battle in education.

Every psychology and sociology class at university taught me about generalized
studies on the effects of a low socioeconomic status on the behavioral
development of a child, leading to poor academic performance as a teen, and then
ultimately impacting their adult life. Even though I knew that the generalized
results of a study cannot be accurately applied to the individual, I did not
have the context of a personal relationship with a child of this background to
really understand what this means.
