Down the hall I heard the beeping of linear accelerators as they ablated tumors
using high-energy photons with pinpoint precision. I witnessed the power of
physics in medicine as cancer patients exited treatment rooms after receiving
their therapy. They were laughing, they were joking and most of them were
walking without any need of assistance, a stark contrast to the gravity of their
condition.

I accepted an internship in medical physics at MD Anderson Cancer Center because
I was seeking to bridge a gap between my two core interests -- physics and
impacting everyday human lives. During my study of physics, I fervently learned
about the fundamental phenomena of the universe, from the motion of protons in
an electric field, to the quantum dynamics of its spin, and eventually leading
to the principles of the MRI. My journey in physics even brought me to the Large
Hadron Collider, the largest particle accelerator in the world, where I helped
design the online monitoring system used during collisions. My in-depth
experiences in physics has shown me its power and I explored its integration
with healthcare delivery through my medical physics internship, where I observed
radiation treatment procedures and the miraculous potential of physics combined
with modern medicine. I also discovered even stronger desires to interact with
the patients and play a long-term role in their therapy from consultation to
post-treatment follow-up leading to my shadowing experience with Dr. Steven Lin,
the radiation oncologist for several of the patients I observed. I will never
forget the miraculous recovery of a patient he treated that highlighted the
power of medicine.

Dr. Lin enlarged the patient's pre-treatment FDG scan on the screen, it was from
eighteen months ago. Over a dozen FDG avid lesions, indicated by black regions,
peppered the mediastinum, his lung cancer had aggressively metastasized. My
heart sank and I wondered how long ago he had passed away, but before I could
ask, Dr. Lin stood up and said, "Let's go check on him". I did not realize that
he was there for a follow-up. The patient and his family greeted us with visibly
tense smiles and nervous handshakes; they were there to review the follow-up
scan. Dr. Lin's lighthearted and jovial personality began to ease them, and as
he joked with them, the tension in their bodies melted and their laughter lost
almost all traces of distress. Then, he pulled up an FDG scan with today's date.
We all let out a sigh -- theirs in relief, mine in awe. His scan was clear of
cancer. Their eyes glistened with tears as they thanked Dr. Lin for returning
their lives back to a sense of normalcy. Afterwards, he explained to me that the
results were due to a trial protocol where immunotherapy is with concurrent
radiation. In curiosity, I asked him for literature on this combined treatment
method. As I read the papers, I was impressed by the potential of joining
radiation physics with pharmaceutical medicine; it saved the patient from
certain death. 

In the following months after the internship, I continued to shadow Dr. Lin and
observed the need for physicians to possess great communication and conflict
resolution skills. More often than I had hoped, Dr. Lin would deliver crushing
news of suspicious activity on scans to terrified patients, and almost every
time, I saw tears in their eyes and fought them from forming in mine. But, Dr.
Lin gave them options, assured them that there were ways to fight the cancer. He
reminded both the patient and me that being diagnosed with cancer was not the
death knell it once was, not with the capabilities of modern medicine. His
bedside manner was impeccable and it showed when he calmed one of his patients
who was irate, fists clenched and threatening to change hospitals due to
numerous errors in his treatment schedule. Dr. Lin acknowledged the patient's
frustration, and showed his compassion while explaining why he could provide the
best treatment for the patient. Within ten minutes the patient thanked Dr. Lin
for convincing him to stay. I was astonished. The importance of superb bedside
manner became very clear. Throughout my experiences with Dr. Lin, I wanted to
comfort the patient and tell them that they are in good hands, but I remained
silent allowing Dr. Lin to provide words of comfort. Hearing their struggles and
pain moved me, and so has witnessing their triumphs over cancer. I want to
impact the lives of patients by giving them assurance and the ability to fight
illness in their greatest time of need. 

As a physician, I want to do more than just heal sick patients. I want to know
them, truly care for them, and give them the chance to live their life again. I
want to explore medicine and apply my skills to make discoveries that can impact
more than just the patients that I will be able to personally care for in my
lifetime. I want to apply my background in physics and math as well as my
research skills to advance medicine through research. I cannot save everyone,
but at least I can give all of them a fighting chance in one way or another.

================================================================================

He explained that I was in a unique position. Medicine is rapidly evolving to
include the technological improvements of recent decades with no signs of
slowing down. I can directly contribute towards this integration using my
programming skills and my knowledge in physics. He encouraged me to consider
becoming a physician-scientist to use my research background as a strong
foundation for making substantial and impactful discoveries. I reflected upon my
place in the future of medicine and all hesitation disappeared. 

In addition to working in the clinic, I also want to apply my research skills.
My background in physics and computational research provides me with a unique
perspective to tackle problems of modern medicine which are increasingly
technologically involved.

I know I may not be able to save all of my patients but at least I can give all
of them a fighting chance.

