Down the hall I heard the beeping of linear accelerators as they ablated tumors
using high-energy photons with pinpoint precision. I witnessed the power of
physics in medicine as cancer patients exited treatment rooms after receiving
therapy. They were laughing, they were joking and most of them were walking
without any need of assistance, a stark contrast to the gravity of their
condition.

I interned at MD Anderson Cancer Center in medical physics because I was seeking
to bridge a gap between my two core interests -- physics and impacting everyday
human lives. During my study of physics, I fervently learned about the
fundamental phenomena of the universe, from the motion of protons in an electric
field, to the quantum dynamics of its spin, and eventually leading to the
principles of the MRI. My journey in physics even brought me to the Large Hadron
Collider, the largest particle accelerator in the world, where I helped design
the online monitoring system used during collisions. My in-depth experiences in
physics has shown me its power, but I really wanted to explore its integration
with healthcare delivery. Throughout my medical physics internship, I observed
radiation treatment procedures and the miraculous potential of physics combined
with modern medicine. I also discovered even stronger desires to interact with
the patients and play a long-term role in their therapy from consultation to
post-treatment follow-up leading to my shadowing experience with Dr. Steven Lin,
the radiation oncologist for several of the patients I observed. I will never
forget the miraculous recovery of a patient he treated that highlighted the
power of medicine.

Dr. Lin enlarged the patient's FDG scan on the screen, it was from eighteen
months ago. Over a dozen FDG avid lesions, indicated by black regions, peppered
the mediastinum, his lung cancer had aggressively metastasized. My heart sank
and I wondered how long ago he had passed away, but before I could ask, Dr. Lin
stood up and said, "Let's go check on him". I did not realize he was there for a
follow-up. The patient and his family greeted us with visibly tense smiles and
nervous handshakes; they were waiting to review the follow-up scan. Dr. Lin's
lighthearted and jovial personality began to ease them and melted the tension in
their bodies. Then, he pulled up an FDG scan with today's date. We all let out a
sigh -- theirs in relief, mine in awe. His scan was clear of cancer. Their eyes
glistened with tears as they thanked Dr. Lin for returning their lives back to a
sense of normalcy. Afterwards, he explained to me that the results were due to a
trial protocol where immunotherapy is administered with concurrent radiation
therapy. In curiosity, I asked him for literature on this combined treatment
method. As I read the papers, I was impressed by the potential of joining
radiation physics with pharmaceutical medicine; it had saved the patient from
certain death. 

After the internship, I continued to shadow Dr. Lin and observed his excellent
bedside manners. More often than I had hoped, Dr. Lin delivered crushing news of
suspicious activity on scans to terrified patients. But, Dr. Lin gave them
options, assured them that there were ways to fight the cancer. He reminded both
the patient and me that being diagnosed with cancer was not the death knell it
once was, not with the capabilities of modern medicine. His impeccable bedside
manner showed when he calmed one of his patients who was irate, fists clenched
and threatening to change hospitals due to numerous miscommunications with staff
about his treatment schedule. Dr. Lin acknowledged the patient's frustration,
and showed his compassion while explaining why he could provide the best
treatment for the patient. Within ten minutes the patient thanked Dr. Lin for
convincing him to stay, I was astonished. Dr. Lin made tears disappear and
frustrations fizzle. Hearing patients talk about their struggles with cancer and
witnessing their triumph over it moved me. I want to be a part of their
journey. I want to impact the lives of patients by giving them assurance and the
ability to fight illness in their greatest time of need. 

As a physician, I want to do more than just heal sick patients. I want to know
them, truly care for them, and give them the chance to live their life again. I
want to explore medicine and apply my background in physics and math as well as
my research skills to make discoveries that can impact more than just the
patients that I will be able to personally care for in my lifetime. I cannot
save everyone, but at least I can give all of them a fighting chance.
