Exploring physics through study and research has directed my growth in
creatively solving open-ended problems and applying my knowledge to understand
processes and concepts. The combination of my interests in the clinical setting
with my love for scientific investigation motivates my pursuit of a dual degree
M.D./Ph.D.

My three years of research experience with Assistant Professor Wei Li, Ph.D., of
Physics and Astronomy at Rice University in heavy-ion physics has developed my
passion for scientific investigation and effective communication of my
discoveries. Working on independent research projects, such as my novel
measurement of the elliptic flow of Xi baryons in proton-lead collisions, has
provided me the opportunity to create my own solutions to experimental design
problems by exploring and applying the deeper concepts in the field. It has also
provided me the opportunity to communicate my work to the broader scientific
community through a Rice undergraduate symposium as well as to my peers in
physics through my senior thesis presentations and defense. I found these
experiences to be very rewarding because I can educate my peers while also
expand the scope of my knowledge as I learned about their work.

The interdisciplinary nature of research is another appealing factor. I can
explore my academic interests outside the immediate scope of the clinical and
medical field and integrate them into medicine in novel ways. Furthermore, it
leads me to different interests fostering new directions and perspectives. For
instance, my undergraduate research and education has led me to an interest in
computational science, which drives my current research interest in medicine. I
want to apply my programming background to advance the application of machine
learning in areas such as imaging, bioinformatics, and personalized medicine.

The dual degree satisfies my medical career aspirations to perform cutting edge
research as a scientist and to care for patients as a physician. As an MD, I
will work on the front lines of providing healthcare where I can develop
relationships with patients and directly determine what innovations can benefit
medicine. As a Ph.D. scientist, I will have the training and resources to
produce these innovations by solving problems involving the intersection of
multiple fields. Working in both settings will benefit each facet of my medical
career allowing me to provide superb care to patients by establishing the bridge
between discoveries in the lab and their application in the clinic.


++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

My zeal for research stems from my creative personality and my intense curiosity
in many fields. Research is a sandbox of ideas with communities of experts
communicating discoveries of fundamental principles with the end goal of
building solutions to increasingly complex problems. The clinic sees the use of
these solutions to provide better care to patients. The dual degree provides me
doors to all of my career aspirations. In the clinic, I am working on the front
lines of medicine where I can develop relationships with patients and see, in
real time, the innovations that would benefit medicine. In the lab, I have the
freedom to think and solve abstract problems involving the intersection of
different fields allowing me to explore the interests that I have found during
my undergraduate experience and beyond, while simultaneously contributing to
humanity's struggle in fighting illness. Together, they make me an effective
physician-scientist providing care to patients in ways inside and outside of the
clinic or lab.

Scientific investigation as a sandbox of ideas from different fields intrigues
me the most.

The interdisciplinary approach in this field of research has also uncovered my
interests in algorithmic programming, which I was able to use during my medical
physics internship, and working with big data. I look forward to the continual
learning

It has also opened the possibility for me to apply my knowledge in fields such
as bioinformatics or computational biology.

Overall, I love research because it presents many opportunities to learn from a
vast variety of fields and to combine knowledge in unique ways producing novel
ideas that may lead to revolutions in thought.

{ << Seems more like something that would go in the research experience essay >>
In addition to writing the thesis, I was required to give multiple extensive
presentations on my research, including a defense, as well as create and present
a poster at the undergraduate natural sciences symposium. Throughout the process
I found a desire for communicating my work to my peers both inside and outside
of my field. }

Throughout my undergraduate experience, I discovered my zeal for research. In my
commitment to high-energy physics research, I have become attracted to both the
interdisciplinary learning as well as the communication of discoveries required
in the scientific process.

My experiences at MD Anderson Cancer Center as a medical physics intern and
shadowing a radiation oncologist have motivated my research interests in imaging
to improve early cancer detection or improving current methods of cancer
treatment. One follow-up patient experience in particular has contributed to
these research interests. The patient was an elderly woman who had previously
received radiation treatment to the hilar region of the left lung near her heart
six months prior.

My decision to pursue a dual degree was spurred by my experiences at MD Anderson
Cancer Center interning for the radiation physics department and shadowing a
radiation oncologist. During my internship, I was exposed to ongoing
developments in image segmentation and registration to improve detection of
radiomic features allowing for the detection of cancer in its early stages. My
experience in the radiation oncology clinic provided additional context and
meaning to their work. Some patients I visited were treated via SBRT where a
very high dose of radiation is administered at the tumor site and the immediate
proximity. While highly effective relative to other treatment methods, it is
limited to small tumors highlighting the impact of the medical physicists' work
in early cancer detection.

My research in high-energy physics has developed a skill set that will become
increasingly useful in the future of medicine.

I have chosen to pursue the joint M.D./Ph.D. degrees because

