- Extensive research experience with Professor Wei Li in heavy-ion physics
  including
    - 3 years experience during undergraduate
    - Summer research internship at CERN
    - Employed as full-time research assistant for one year post undergraduate with an aim to publish soon
    - Poster presentation at undergraduate natural sciences symposium

- Summer internship in medical physics at MD Anderson Cancer Center

- Teaching assistant for biological laboratory techniques course

Prompt: Describe the setting in which you envision conducting your medical
career. Also include how and why you think this setting would help fulfill your
interests related to the practice of medicine.


I kept my eyes on the patient as she listened to the radiation oncologist
explain to her that there were no other options. Her body could not safely
tolerate more radiation and she was not healthy enough for surgery or drug
therapy. I wondered what it must be like for her and as I imagined myself in her
shoes, I wished that there was another option for her-- something that could be
done to let her live even if for only another year.

I was shadowing the physician at the time and I met many patients who owed their
lives to the latest advances in medicine. However, this case reminded me that
there is still a dire need to continue developing techniques and making new
discoveries. When I think about my potential future career as a physician, I
imagine myself as a radiation oncologist and also as a researcher. I hope to
bring my background in physics and mathematics into the medical field to improve
imaging methods or analysis or

I was glad that she had found some peace in light of the situation, but I wished
that more could be done. As I reflected on the encounter it became evident that
research offered a way. 

Yet-- despite losing option after option, her expression was placid,
her brow remained unfurrowed, and she looked as calm as when we initially
entered the examination room. Her daughters began to cry as they attempted to
console her, and only then did her expression change into a comforting smile as
she said, "It's okay. I lived a long life."


 choice of setting for my medical career is dependent upon my specific
interests in medicine as well as personal reasons. I have a strong intention to
return to Texas to conduct my medical career, specifically the Texas Medical
Center. The close vicinity of my undergraduate institution, Rice University, to
the Texas Medical Center has provided me several opportunities to explore why it
is a good fit for my interests.

I believe the Texas medical center is conducive for my interests in academic research
in cancer and teaching while also allowing me to provide state-of-the-art
treatment options for cancer patients.

I have never experienced the impact of cancer. 
