Indicate any special experiences, unusual factors or other information you feel
would be helpful in evaluating you, including, but not limited to, education,
employment, extracurricular activities, prevailing over adversity. You may
expand upon but not repeat AMCAS application information. 2000 character limit.

Working at the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) in Switzerland
was always a dream experience for me ever since I heard about it as a child, so
when my PI offered me the opportunity to go I jumped on it. Every part of the
journey rewarded me with a greater understanding of the importance of community
and a broader view of the world.

It was not cheap to travel there, and even though I would only stay for ten
weeks, the cost of living was high. My family did not have enough money to
support me, and so it did not seem as though I would be able to take advantage
of the opportunity. However, I was able to apply for and receive a fellowship
from the Shell Foundation through Rice, which covered a large portion of the
expenses. The rest of the money came from my own savings as well as my aunts and
uncles who recognized the opportunity for me and contributed generously. If it
were not for my family and the generous philanthropists at the Shell Foundation,
I would not have been able to make it.

During my experience, I was pushed to the boundaries of my comfort zone in many
ways. I was living on my own for the first time in a country where I did not
know the language, but with the assistance of my colleagues at CERN I was able
to figure it out. One of the benefits of working at CERN was being surrounded by
people from all around the world. I lived with and worked with people of diverse
backgrounds leading to interesting conversations about how other countries
tackle problems such as healthcare, which interested me because I did not have
health insurance until the Affordable Care Act was enacted. The conversations I
had with these people broadened my understanding of the world and I developed an
even deeper appreciation for different perspectives.

================================================================================

Before my summer internship, I had never travelled outside of the U.S. When I
was a child, my family did not have the money to travel abroad and neither did
my parents feel there was a need to see more of the world. As refugees of the
Vietnam War, they moved through many refugee camps in different countries and
thought that they had seen more than enough. Their views had an influence on my
thoughts about the importance of travelling abroad, and, prior to the
experience, I did not realize how much of an impact going abroad would have on
me.
