Physics has become a part of my identity. My friends and family know me best for
my interest in physics because I frequently pose questions about physical
phenomena and then tease out the process behind it. But in my study of physics,
I have learned much more than just the laws of nature. I have obtained skills
that are also highly useful in medicine.

An important skill that is taught in physics is how to distill an open-ended
problem to its most fundamental principles. This allows one to generate
solutions to the underlying issues, which is important because it establishes a
base from which implications can be made leading to a framework of evidence that
supports a final conclusion. This skill is important in diagnosis where a
physician must draw a conclusion from a list of symptoms, medical history, and
additional results from imaging scans or labs. For example, a physician may
simplify a diagnosis by first determining which symptoms are likely to arise
from effects of other symptoms, and then focusing on the symptoms that appear to
be a result of the underlying illness and then identify that illness with
corroborating evidence from other tests and labs. This must be done while
keeping the patient history and other supplemental information in mind to
support the assumptions made throughout the reasoning process. Evidently,
medicine requires large-scale mental data management to arrive at correct
conclusions, a skill that I have honed for the last four years.  

Physics has fostered my critical thinking skills to solve complex problems by
finding the underlying issues and building upon them to a conclusion. These
skills are used daily by physicians in all specialties and boost their efficacy
in providing and revolutionizing healthcare.

Also, physicians who have this skill are more likely to develop new techniques
or incorporate techniques from other areas in an unconventional manner to
improve healthcare, take for instance the inventors of the MRI.

Since the body works together as a whole, specialized physicians cannot be
solely focused on their own specialty and must be able to apply knowledge that
they have in other specialties to make an accurate diagnosis. 

