The current boom in technology has revolutionized healthcare provisions. As
medicine moves into this new phase, medical students should possess
unconventional skills in conjunction with traditional skills to continue
providing effective healthcare.

Research continuously improves our knowledge of treating illness and my
intellectual curiosity will assist me in both keeping up to date with the
literature and contributing to it throughout my career. Research opportunities
in several fields of medicine are expanding commensurately with the rapid
developments in modern technology. Advances in processors and cheaper data
storage boost the quantity of information available for analysis in clinical
research as well as open doors for the fields of bioinformatics, imaging, and
personalized medicine through the use of tools such as machine learning. These
trends will benefit from a new generation of researchers and physicians whom
possess the technical skills to analyze the data, create innovative algorithms,
and interpret the results. My technical training through particle physics
research and background in mathematics allows me to explore this growing
frontier in medicine and provide a means for my peers to learn about it.

Collaboration amongst physicians and different professions is crucial in
delivering quality healthcare, therefore teamwork and communication skills are
essential for future physicians who will depend upon each other to achieve a
complex goal. My summer internship at CERN developing the online channel
monitoring system, which is in use at all times during particle collisions at
the Large Hadron Collider, demonstrates that I possess these skills. As the
contact for the system, it was my responsibility to communicate with a team of
eight members. I called meetings regularly to determine what information they
needed to be displayed. I was also able to independently develop features that
were useful for the team demonstrating that I possess the foresight to
preemptively address issues and the creativity to cater towards the needs of
roles other than my own.

My intellectual curiosity, teamwork and communication skills, and my background
in physics, mathematics, and computational programming are qualities that will
supplement the educational experience of my peers with an eye towards this new
age.
